Applied Scientist (Transportation Modelling, Land)
What We Do:
The Cities team builds Digital Twins of Cities with a specific focus on providing data
analytics not just of what is, but of what if scenarios, by modelling how population and
infrastructure interact in systems such as transport networks and influence the environment,
economy, policy, and terrain to allow decision makers to see the possible outcomes of their
plans over systems with large geographic scale and complex requirements.
We are a multi-disciplinary team working together to build customer solutions from Core
components (including an application development kit, base models that come with the
platform, tools to help modellers build models more quickly and tools to help store,
manage and process data) and customised data and integrations.
We are seeking an applied scientist to help create and improve these models and
solutions, and empower our users to leverage synthetic environments and supporting
modelling applications at the ambitious levels of complexity and scale they desire.
What We Are Looking For:
● You have strong experience with transport modelling. This can include road
transport, public transport, mixed/shared/micro mobility, and span across local,
national and international transportation systems. We also welcome applications
from those with broader urban mobility and logistics modelling backgrounds.
● You are an advocate for model explainability and scientific robustness.
● Experience with geospatial data is a strong advantage.
● Familiarity with agent-based modelling approaches is an advantage.
● Experience across the whole lifecycle of model development, including requirements
gathering, research, prototyping, implementation, and validation.
● You have implemented models to high standards of engineering, either by yourself or
by closely collaborating with engineers
● Proficiency with Python is required.
● You have a degree in a STEM subject with a significant mathematical component. A
PhD is not required but is an advantage
What You’ll Be Responsible For:
● Creating scientific models for our solutions, ensuring that customers have the
functionality they need now and in the future. Conducting literature reviews,
conceptual modelling and prototyping as well as being hands-on in the process
of model implementation.
● Working with delivery teams to interpret technical requirements and formulate them
into scientifically-defensible products.
● Delivering prototype and production level implementations of model tooling as
notebooks and code.
● Investigating third-party data sources and products, evaluating their applicability and
assisting in the creation of pipelines to make them available to simulation engines
and user interfaces.
● Critically evaluating the results of simulations and presenting these back to key
stakeholders & decision makers, while adapting your communication style to
the relevant audience.
● Telling a story with the data from our products and simulations, remaining pragmatic
about their limitations and providing a realistic view to colleagues, stakeholders and
clients of the benefits and risks inherent to data-driven decision making.
● Spending time with our customers to understand their perspectives and inform their
thinking as we create new products for defence.